# Prevotella_amp.py

Internal script
Run:

```
python3 uscripts/prevotella_amp.py
```

### : Description :

Count AMPs per *Prevotella* species. Also computes the alignment and the tree for
the genus 16S rRNA gene.

### : Inputs :

1. **data/taxonomy_annotation.tsv.gz**

Table from AMPSphere v2022-03 version. It consists in a table generated by filtering
the taxonomy assigned to contigs and AMP candidates. The AMP candidates assigned to
genus or species levels were considerd. This table has the info related to the
lowest taxonomic level each AMP had in AMPSphere. Its columns are:
    
    amp - accession in AMPSphere v2022-03 resource
    taxid - accession in NCBI taxID database
    level - lowest taxonomy classification (Unknown, Root, Kingdom, Phylum,
            Class, Order, Family, Genus, Species)
    source - taxon assigned to the contig from which the AMP was predicted
    fixed - one term designating taxonomy, here stands for genus

2. **data/prevotella_species_list.tsv.gz:**

Table generated manually after curation of species belonging to *Prevotella* genus.
Data obtained from [lpsn.dsmz.de](https://lpsn.dsmz.de). Its columns are:

    Species name - *Prevotella* species
    Host(s) - host from which the isolate was obtained, e.g. human
    Host site(s) - site from which the isolate was obtained, e.g. guts
    Strain - name of the isolate, strain code


### : Outputs :

1. **prevotella_species_amp_counts.tsv**

Table generated for *Prevotella* genus with AMP counts.
Its columns are:

    Species name - *Prevotella* species
    Host(s) - host from which the isolate was obtained, e.g. human
    Host site(s) - site from which the isolate was obtained, e.g. guts
    Strain - name of the isolate, strain code
    AMPs - number of non-redundant AMPs


2. **37185.aln**

Alignment of 16S rRNA gene of *Prevotella* species.

3. **37185.nwk**

Tree made with the 16S rRNA gene of *Prevotella* species.

