# AMPSphere v2022-03 data and scripts

- It contains the files and scripts to generate analysis and figures in AMPSphere
  paper.


## Info

This repository contains a `data/` folder with all files needed to run the analysis and tests in the AMPSphere paper.
To run these files you will need a python3 system and a sort of other softwares listed in the requirements file
`environment.yml` that can be easily used to create a conda environment using the command:

```
$ cd AMPSphere_v2022_03_annex/
$ conda env create -f environment.yml -n ampsphere_envo
$ conda activate ampsphere_envo
```

To execute the codes from the `uscripts/` folder, you simply can run the scripts directly:

```
$ python3 uscripts/<script_of_choice>.py
```

The outputs should be generated in the current folder. To have an idea of which script generates a given output, 
please give it a look in the [contents_map.md](docs/contents_map.md) file. It is a table with the resource generated by each 
script and where it was used in the AMPSphere paper.

## Contents

The `data/` folder contains a series of files generated during AMPSphere analysis, to more info
follow the [link](data/README.md)

## Scripts

Below there is a list of scripts in this repository, by clicking their links you can access
basic info about how to run them along with descriptions of inputs and outputs.

1. [core.py](docs/core.md)
2. [displotter.py](docs/displotter.md)
3. [family_sizes.py](docs/family_sizes.md)
4. [ftests.py](docs/ftests.md)
5. [hbody.py](docs/hbody.md)
6. [henvo_alt.py](docs/henvo_alt.md)
7. [hmammal_guts.py](docs/hmammal_guts.md)
8. [jelena_s.py](docs/jelena_s.md)
9. [motifs.py](docs/motifs.md)
10. [norm_w_bps_per_taxon.py](docs/norm_w_bps_per_taxon.md)
11. [plot_gmgc.py](docs/plot_gmgc.md)
12. [plot-metadata.py](docs/plot-metadata.md)
13. [prevotella_amp.py](docs/prevotella_amp.md)
14. [quality_homologs_by_db.py](docs/quality_homologs_by_db.md)
15. [qualtest.py](docs/qualtest.md)
16. [suptable_s1.py](docs/suptable_s1.md)
17. [taxonomy.py](docs/taxonomy.md)
18. [ugenes.py](docs/ugenes.md)
19. [graph_enrichment.py](docs/graph_enrichment.md)
20. [homolog_quality.py](docs/homolog_quality.md)
21. [sup_table_high_environments.py](docs/sup_table_high_environments.md)
